You may fancy the terror I was in! I should have leaped out and run for it if I had
found the strength, but my limbs and heart alike misgave me. I heard Dick begin to
rise, and then someone seemingly stopped him, and the voice of Hands exclaimed,
“Oh, stow that! Don’t you get sucking of that bilge, John. Let’s have a go of the
rum.”
“Dick,” said Silver, “I trust you. I’ve a gauge on the keg, mind. There’s the key; you
fill a pannikin and bring it up.”
Terrified as I was, I could not help thinking to myself that this must have been how
Mr. Arrow got the strong waters that destroyed him.
Dick was gone but a little while, and during his absence Israel spoke straight on in
the cook’s ear. It was but a word or two that I could catch, and yet I gathered some
important news, for besides other scraps that tended to the same purpose, this
whole clause was audible: “Not another man of them’ll jine.” Hence there were still
faithful men on board.
When Dick returned, one after another of the trio took the pannikin and drank —
one “To luck,” another with a “Here’s to old Flint,” and Silver himself saying, in a
kind of song, “Here’s to ourselves, and hold your luff, plenty of prizes and plenty of
duff.”
Just then a sort of brightness fell upon me in the barrel, and looking up, I found the
moon had risen and was silvering the mizzen-top and shining white on the luff of
the fore- sail; and almost at the same time the voice of the lookout shouted, “Land
ho!”
Chapter XII - Council of War
There was a great rush of feet across the deck. I could hear people tumbling up from
the cabin and the forecastle, and slipping in an instant outside my barrel, I dived
behind the fore-sail, made a double towards the stern, and came out upon the open
deck in time to join Hunter and Dr. Livesey in the rush for the weather bow.
There all hands were already congregated. A belt of fog had lifted almost
simultaneously with the appearance of the moon. Away to the south-west of us we
saw two low hills, about a couple of miles apart, and rising behind one of them a
third and higher hill, whose peak was still buried in the fog. All three seemed sharp
and conical in figure.
So much I saw, almost in a dream, for I had not yet recovered from my horrid fear of
a minute or two before. And then I heard the voice of Captain Smollett issuing
orders. The HISPANIOLA was laid a couple of points nearer the wind and now
sailed a course that would just clear the island on the east.